(lively music)
(keyboard keys clacking)
Before we take a deeper dive into classes
and functions and all the other good stuff,
let's take a look at access modifiers
because every declaration
whether it be a class, a function, an interface
or a property has an implicit
or an explicit access modifier,
also known as visibility modifiers.
In Kotlin, the meaning of an access modifier
can be different depending
on whether you're dealing with something declared
at the top level of a file
or something that's a class member.
In Kotlin, there are four visibility modifiers.
Remember, in Java, you can only ever have classes
at the top level but in Kotlin,
you can have functions and you can also have properties.
We haven't looked at that yet but properties
can also be declared at the top level.
In Kotlin, there are four visibility modifiers,
there's public, private and protected,
just like in Java,
there's also internal
which we'll cover shortly.
So, let's start with the top-level items.
Top-level items are public by default,
so if you don't specify an access modifier,
then the declaration is public.
This is different from Java
because in Java, the default visibility for classes
which is all that can be declared at the top level
is package private
meaning that everything in the same package
as the class can access the class
but in Kotlin, the default visibility is public
meaning that everything can see and access the class.
In Kotlin, if a top-level item is private,
then everything in the same file can access it.
And this is another key difference
between Java and Kotlin
because in Java, if a class is public,
its name has to match the file name in which it lives.
So, because of that, there can only ever one public class
in a single source file.
But that's not the case in Kotlin.
In Kotlin, there's no matching requirement
between class names and file names,
so you can have as many public classes as you want
in a single Kotlin file.
In Kotlin, you can also use private with classes
which you can't do in Java.
If you try to declare a Java class as private,
it won't work because obviously nothing's ever going
to be able to see that class,
so it wouldn't make sense but in Kotlin,
you can use private with classes
and that's because private means
that everything in the same file
can access the class, so even though the class is private,
there's still other things that can use it
as long as they're in the same file.
So, I've already created a Kotlin project here.
I've called mine AccessModifiers
and set up the usual package and everything.
You can do this however you like.
Let's add a class to our Kotlin file.
We'll add a class called Employee.
We've seen this before and we're gonna make it private.
Private class Employee.
This wouldn't work in Java.
If you tried to declare a class as private,
you'd get an error.
So, this class is visible to everything in the same file,
so we should be able to use it from our main function
'cause the main function is in the same file,
so we can say val emp equals Employee
and we can print line emp.
And we'll see we have no errors and if we run,
we'll just see the usual instance reference here
and so, even though this class was declared private,
we can use it from the same file.
If we were in Java, when we declared a class private,
nothing would be able to use it
because it's not visible to anything
and that's why classes can't be private
because there's no point in creating a class
that nothing can use.
So, that's what public and private mean
for top-level items in Kotlin.
You can't use protected at the top level.
Now, Kotlin also has the notion of a module
and a module is a group of files
that are compiled together
and in IntelliJ, AccessModifiers is a module,
but it could be a group of files compiled
by Gradle or Maven.
You can have more than one module
in an IntelliJ project
and we'll see an example of that later
when we look at imports.
So, I mentioned that Kotlin
has a fourth access modifier called internal.
A top-level item that's marked internal
is visible inside the module.
So, in other words, everything that belongs
to the same module can see declarations
that are marked as internal
and we'll take a look at this later once again
when we look at imports.
So, that's the four access modifiers in Kotlin
and how they apply to top-level items.
Let's go to a slide so we can just do a quick review.
So, for top-level items,
if the access modifier is private,
in Kotlin that means it can be seen within the same file.
You can't use private with classes in Java
and since classes are the only top-level items in Java,
that means you can't use private
for top-level items.
Protected can't be used in Kotlin or Java
Public means visible everywhere in both Kotlin and Java
and internal which is only available in Kotlin,
means visible within the same module.
So, as far as top-level item goes,
you have to pay attention to the difference in meaning
between Kotlin and Java
because out of the three existing access modifiers in Java,
only private differs from what it means in Kotlin.
Let's go back to IntelliJ.
Let's talk briefly about class members,
meaning items declared within a class.
There isn't a lot of difference
between Kotlin and Java here.
Public, private and protected mean the same
as they do in Java.
So, the only difference here
is in the internal modifier.
Now, once again, anything inside the same module
that can see a class, can also see its internal members.
So, if we have a class A and class A
is declared public and has a property called x
that is declared to be internal,
then anything inside the same module as class A
can see the property x.
Now, if class A was declared to be private,
meaning that only items within the same file
as class A can see it,
then obviously only items within the file
can see the property x,
even though it's declared internal
and in fact, declaring it internal
wouldn't make sense in this case,
so you only wanna declare properties internal essentially
if they can be seen outside the file,
otherwise there's no point giving access
to other modules 'cause they're not gonna be able
to see the class and therefore they're not gonna
be able to see the property.
There's one other important difference
between Kotlin and Java.
In Kotlin, classes can't see private members belonging
to inner classes.
So, that's the one difference between Kotlin and Java.
One word before we go
about what happens under the covers
with the visibility modifiers.
Remember that the Kotlin application will run on the JVM
and Java doesn't have the internal modifier.
It also treats private differently
and it has the private package visibility
meaning items that can be seen
from other writings from within the same package
and in fact that's the default visibility
of classes in Java.
If you don't specify public,
the class is private package.
So, in when Kotlin applications are compiled,
the access modifiers have to be compiled
to modifiers that the JVM understands,
so this is what happens.
Private is compiled to package private,
internal is compiled to public.
Now, keep in mind that Kotlin enforces
its visibility rules at compile time.
So, the way it maps its modifiers to byte code
won't lead to its visibility rules being broken,
it won't break encapsulation.
However, when you mix Kotlin and Java,
this can lead to Java sometimes being able
to access things that it wouldn't be allowed
to access from Kotlin.
So, for example, if we look at the internal modifier,
in Kotlin that means that only members of the same module
can access something marked internal
but because internal is compiled to public
under the covers, then any Java code can access it.
So, keep this in mind when you mix Kotlin and Java.
Now the Kotlin compiler does do something
to help you with this.
It makes the names of internal items really, really ugly
in the byte code,
so you have to use those ugly names
if you wanna access them from Java
and so, this will kind of alert you to the fact
that you're probably doing something
you're not supposed to be doing.
So, if you're ever writing Java code
and you're using Kotlin
and you're looking to use a function
and it's got this really long ugly name
or a property, then that probably means
that it was declared internal in Kotlin
and you shouldn't be accessing it from your Java code.
That's it, I'll see you in the next video.